README.md, before:

# Dockerized CMaNGOS

This repository assumes that you are using rootless [Podman](https://github.com/containers/podman)

## If you insist on using docker instead of podman
By default `podman` is used. If `podman` is not present on your system, `docker` will be used.
If you want to override which container orchestrator to use set the environment variable `CONTAINER_ORCHESTRATOR` to `podman` or `docker` or any other that is command-compatible.

### Getting started

- The very first thing to do is to rename or copy the `.env.dist` file to `.env` and edit it to choose the CMaNGOS expansion you wish this server to be for.

Next you should run `./build_default.sh` if you don't want to play with Playerbots or `./build_bots.sh` if you want to play with bots.
This will build the server components and extractors. It also allows you to update the CMaNGOS core to the latest version.

Next run `./update_dbs.sh` to download and install the SQLite Databases

Finally run `./extract.sh /path/to/your/World of Warcraft` to extract the data required to run the server.

To make changes to the configuration use the `.env` file.

Once all of this has finished you can start the server with `podman-compose up -d` and check the status with `podman-compose logs`

To create a user run `./enter_console.sh` to connect to the `mangosd` process. Log in with `ADMINISTRATOR` as user and `ADMINISTRATOR` as password.

### Updating

To update the core simply run `./build_default.sh` or `./build_bots.sh` again.
To update the database simply run `./update_dbs.sh` again

After updating the core, the composition needs to be fully torn down with `podman-compose down` or `docker compose down` and not simply stopped for it to load the newly built core image.

## Experimental
If an update of the realmd and/or characters database is required there is an ***EXPERIMENTAL*** feature that allows backing up these databases and restoring them.

To do this you *first* run `./db_backup.sh` which will create 2 files: `realmd_backup.sql` and `characters_backup.sql`. Open them with a text editor to confirm that they are not empty.
If they are not empty in the next step *rename* your `databases` directory to `databases_old`, then run `update_dbs.sh` again. When this is done run `db_restore.sh`.

*IMPORTANT*: `db_restore.sh` works by first emptying the entire database and then adding the data from the 2 backup files. If these backups are not up-to-date or contain invalid SQL, this will
make the `realmd` and `characters` dbs unusable. So be *absolutely sure* that you have renamed the folder with the original databases to avoid data loss.

Carelessness in this process can and will delete all of your account data in these containers.

There are also the `handsfree_setup.sh` and the `handsfree_update.sh` scripts, which *should* do the full setup without user intervention and do a full update with only a minor intervention.
Especially the hands free update is dangerous, so only do it if you're sure.

Commit message:

Add more info to the Readme

README.md, after:

# Dockerized CMaNGOS

This repository assumes that you are using rootless [Podman](https://github.com/containers/podman)

## If you insist on using docker instead of podman
By default `podman` is used. If `podman` is not present on your system, `docker` will be used.
If you want to override which container orchestrator to use set the environment variable `CONTAINER_ORCHESTRATOR` to `podman` or `docker` or any other that is command-compatible.

### Getting started

- The very first thing to do is to rename or copy the `.env.dist` file to `.env` and edit it to choose the CMaNGOS expansion you wish this server to be for.

Next you should run `./build_default.sh` if you don't want to play with Playerbots or `./build_bots.sh` if you want to play with bots.
This will build the server components and extractors. It also allows you to update the CMaNGOS core to the latest version.

Next run `./update_dbs.sh` to download and install the SQLite Databases

Finally run `./extract.sh /path/to/your/World of Warcraft` to extract the data required to run the server.

To make changes to the configuration use the `.env` file.

Once all of this has finished you can start the server with `podman-compose up -d` and check the status with `podman-compose logs`

To create a user run `./enter_console.sh` to connect to the `mangosd` process. Log in with `ADMINISTRATOR` as user and `ADMINISTRATOR` as password.
The command to run is: `account create username password 3` replace `username` with your username and `password` with your password.
The `3` means that the account is enabled for the WotLK expansion and so does include classic and tbc.
To make your account into a GM account, use `account set gmlevel 3 username`.

### Updating

To update the core simply run `./build_default.sh` or `./build_bots.sh` again.
To update the database simply run `./update_dbs.sh` again

After updating the core, the composition needs to be fully torn down with `podman-compose down` or `docker compose down` and not simply stopped for it to load the newly built core image.

### Special files

To override settings from the `compose.yml` you can create a `compose.override.yml` and use it to add or override values from the `compose.yml`.
Check the documentation of `docker` or `podman` for more information.

To change the configurations of your server, modify the `.env` (not the `.env.dist`) file. Check the top of [the reference CMaNGOS config file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cmangos/mangos-wotlk/refs/heads/master/src/mangosd/mangosd.conf.dist.in) for more information.

To change the name of your server or the IP of your server, copy the `realm.sql.dist` file to `realm.sql` and edit it to fit your needs.
It is automatically applied when you run `update_dbs.sh`.

## Experimental
If an update of the realmd and/or characters database is required there is an ***EXPERIMENTAL*** feature that allows backing up these databases and restoring them.

To do this you *first* run `./db_backup.sh` which will create 2 files: `realmd_backup.sql` and `characters_backup.sql`. Open them with a text editor to confirm that they are not empty.
If they are not empty in the next step *rename* your `databases` directory to `databases_old`, then run `update_dbs.sh` again. When this is done run `db_restore.sh`.

*IMPORTANT*: `db_restore.sh` works by first emptying the entire database and then adding the data from the 2 backup files. If these backups are not up-to-date or contain invalid SQL, this will
make the `realmd` and `characters` dbs unusable. So be *absolutely sure* that you have renamed the folder with the original databases to avoid data loss.

Carelessness in this process can and will delete all of your account data in these containers.

There are also the `handsfree_setup.sh` and the `handsfree_update.sh` scripts, which *should* do the full setup without user intervention and do a full update with only a minor intervention.
Especially the hands free update is dangerous, so only do it if you're sure.
